The for-each loop only works if Java knows how to iterate over something.

It knows this in two cases:

Arrays → built-in support
Classes implementing Iterable → via iterator() method

🧾 Final takeaway
Primitives ❌ not iterable
Arrays ✅ iterable (special support)
Custom objects ❌ unless they implement Iterable
Iterable = a contract that tells Java how to loop over elements

Now Que comes why not by def every class is iterable!
🧠 One-line answer

Java doesn’t make every class iterable because not every object is a collection, and Iterable is only for things that logically contain multiple elements.
Lets say a class "class Car{...}", here what would you loop over, it's not the collection, that is why!!

Now next as its hierarchy:
Iterable
   ↓
Collection
   ↓
(List, Set, Queue, etc.)

🔹 What Collection adds over Iterable(collection is the interface of java.util package )
While Iterable only gives:


iterator() → ability to loop


The Collection interface adds:


add() → insert elements


remove() → delete elements


size() → number of elements


contains() → check presence


👉 So Collection is where real data structure behavior starts.

🔹 After Collection:
From Collection, more specific interfaces come:
List → ordered collection (e.g., ArrayList)
Set → no duplicates (e.g., HashSet)
Queue → processing order (e.g., PriorityQueue)
(All part of the Java Collections Framework)

🔑 Final takeaway:
Iterable = “you can loop”
Collection = “you can store and manage a group of elements”
So, Collection comes right after Iterable and builds the foundation for all major data structures in Java.

-------------------------------------------------------------
📘 Notes on the List interface
🔹 Definition

The List interface is a part of the Java Collections Framework that represents an ordered collection of elements.

It allows duplicate elements and maintains insertion order.

🔹 Key Characteristics
✅ Ordered → elements are stored in sequence
✅ Allows duplicates → same value can appear multiple times
✅ Index-based access → each element has a position (0, 1, 2, …)
✅ Dynamic size → grows or shrinks automatically

🔹 Common Implementing Classes
ArrayList → fast access, slower insert/delete in middle
LinkedList → faster insert/delete, slower access
Vector → legacy, thread-safe (rarely used now)
stack

🔹 Important Methods
add(E e)          // add element
add(int index, E e)
get(int index)    // access element
set(int index, E e) // replace element
remove(int index)
size()            // number of elements
contains(Object o)

